lmkd/README.md, before:

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon
================================


Introduction
------------

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon (lmkd) is a process monitoring memory
state of a running Android system and reacting to high memory pressure
by killing the least essential process(es) to keep system performing
at acceptable levels.


Background
----------

Historically on Android systems memory monitoring and killing of
non-essential processes was handled by a kernel lowmemorykiller driver.
Since Linux Kernel 4.12 the lowmemorykiller driver has been removed and
instead userspace lmkd daemon performs these tasks.


Android Properties
------------------

lmkd can be configured on a particular system using the following Android
properties:

  ro.config.low_ram:         choose between low-memory vs high-performance
                             device. Default = false.

  ro.lmk.use_minfree_levels: use free memory and file cache thresholds for
                             making decisions when to kill. This mode works
                             the same way kernel lowmemorykiller driver used
                             to work. Default = false

  ro.lmk.low:                min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at low vmpressure level. Default = 1001
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.medium:             min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at medium vmpressure level. Default = 800
                             (non-essential processes)

  ro.lmk.critical:           min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at critical vmpressure level. Default = 0
                             (all processes)

  ro.lmk.critical_upgrade:   enables upgrade to critical level. Default = false

  ro.lmk.upgrade_pressure:   max mem_pressure at which level will be upgraded
                             because system is swapping too much. Default = 100
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.downgrade_pressure: min mem_pressure at which vmpressure event will
                             be ignored because enough free memory is still
                             available. Default = 100 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.kill_heaviest_task: kill heaviest eligible task (best decision) vs.
                             any eligible task (fast decision). Default = false

  ro.lmk.kill_timeout_ms:    duration in ms after a kill when no additional
                             kill will be done, Default = 0 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.debug:              enable lmkd debug logs, Default = false

Commit message:

lmkd: Introduce kill strategy based on zone watermarks, swap and thrashing
Add new kill strategy which makes kill decisions based on which zone
watermark is breached, how much free swap space is still available and
what percentage of the file-backed page cache has been refaulted. This mode
is designed to be used only with PSI signals. It kills unconditionally when
a critical pressure event is received, therefore PSI stall for that event
should be set to a value representing a truly non-responding system
(currently set to 700ms out of 1sec spent in complete stall). New event
handler also controls polling interval based on current memory conditions.

Bug: 132642304
Test: lmkd_unit_test, ACT memory pressure tests
Change-Id: Ia213ef2bb06b245d651ebf2d813e944b4ae7565f
Signed-off-by: Suren Baghdasaryan <surenb@google.com>

Former-commit-id: 561cfd94785bea31721601793db1e3c458ade89a

lmkd/README.md, after:

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon
================================


Introduction
------------

Android Low Memory Killer Daemon (lmkd) is a process monitoring memory
state of a running Android system and reacting to high memory pressure
by killing the least essential process(es) to keep system performing
at acceptable levels.


Background
----------

Historically on Android systems memory monitoring and killing of
non-essential processes was handled by a kernel lowmemorykiller driver.
Since Linux Kernel 4.12 the lowmemorykiller driver has been removed and
instead userspace lmkd daemon performs these tasks.


Android Properties
------------------

lmkd can be configured on a particular system using the following Android
properties:

  ro.config.low_ram:         choose between low-memory vs high-performance
                             device. Default = false.

  ro.lmk.use_minfree_levels: use free memory and file cache thresholds for
                             making decisions when to kill. This mode works
                             the same way kernel lowmemorykiller driver used
                             to work. Default = false

  ro.lmk.low:                min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at low vmpressure level. Default = 1001
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.medium:             min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at medium vmpressure level. Default = 800
                             (non-essential processes)

  ro.lmk.critical:           min oom_adj score for processes eligible to be
                             killed at critical vmpressure level. Default = 0
                             (all processes)

  ro.lmk.critical_upgrade:   enables upgrade to critical level. Default = false

  ro.lmk.upgrade_pressure:   max mem_pressure at which level will be upgraded
                             because system is swapping too much. Default = 100
                             (disabled)

  ro.lmk.downgrade_pressure: min mem_pressure at which vmpressure event will
                             be ignored because enough free memory is still
                             available. Default = 100 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.kill_heaviest_task: kill heaviest eligible task (best decision) vs.
                             any eligible task (fast decision). Default = false

  ro.lmk.kill_timeout_ms:    duration in ms after a kill when no additional
                             kill will be done. Default = 0 (disabled)

  ro.lmk.debug:              enable lmkd debug logs, Default = false

  ro.lmk.swap_free_low_percentage: level of free swap as a percentage of the
                             total swap space used as a threshold to consider
                             the system as swap space starved. Default for
                             low-RAM devices = 10, for high-end devices = 20

  ro.lmk.thrashing_limit:    number of workingset refaults as a percentage of
                             the file-backed pagecache size used as a threshold
                             to consider system thrashing its pagecache.
                             Default for low-RAM devices = 30, for high-end
                             devices = 100

  ro.lmk.thrashing_limit_decay: thrashing threshold decay expressed as a
                             percentage of the original threshold used to lower
                             the threshold when system does not recover even
                             after a kill. Default for low-RAM devices = 50,
                             for high-end devices = 10
